[Music]
what would happen if plane doors opened
some people feel a little uneasy when it
comes to flying oh come on let's be
honest a lot of people are scared out of
their wit's each time they fasten their
seat belts on an airplane in fact one
out of three Americans is either afraid
to fly 18.1 percent of people who travel
by plane or anxious about flying 12.6
percent of all passengers and what
exactly has got them rattled 33 percent
are nervous when the plane is flying
over water 36 percent are afraid to fly
at night another 36 percent are scared
that there will be some mechanical
problems on the ground
62 percent are terrified of bad weather
like storms and blizzards and 73 percent
almost have panic attacks when they
imagine mechanical problems that might
appear during the flight yet
statistically speaking you have no real
reason to worry about flying first of
all there's just one tiny possibility in
a whopping 11 million chances that
you'll be involved in an airplane
accident secondly 96 percent of all
passengers who get into such accidents
survive surprising I know but you can't
argue with the statistics right finally
experts have calculated that to be
killed in a plane crash you need to fly
approximately once a day for 22,000
years
I mean sure that'd be some awesome
frequent flyer miles but for most of us
mere mortals it's impossible anyway
despite knowing about the extremely low
probability of being killed in a plane
crash people still get nervous and keep
asking questions like what if a bird
crashes into my plane what if the
engines stopped working what if the
plane can't gain the necessary altitude
today we'll try to answer some of these
worrisome questions that have kept you
up at night before a flight
one what would happen if you open the
door of the plane mid-flight opening the
door on a plane mid-flight is surely one
of the worst things you could do all the
passengers sitting close to the exit
would be sucked out of the cabin and
flowing into the sky the temperature
onboard the aircraft would quickly
plummet and the plane would probably
begin to break apart to save your life
you'd have about 15 to 20 seconds to put
on your oxygen masks and even if you
managed to do this your chances of
survival would still be microscopic oh
yeah we're supposed to be puttin your
fears at rest start wait well there's
nothing to worry about the situation is
purely hypothetical there's zero chance
you'd be able to open the door unless
you have superhuman strength that is you
see at cruising altitude the air
pressure inside the cabin is about point
seven or point eight atmospheres which
is equivalent to around eleven to twelve
pounds of force per square inch again
unless you're Superman or Chuck Norris
you wouldn't be able to get the door to
budge the worst thing that would happen
to you is getting arrested as soon as
the plane lands - what would happen if a
bird hit your plane there actually is
something called an aviation wildlife
hazard management community known in the
States as bird strike committee USA that
specializes in this field according to
their calculations if a 12 pound
Canadian goose hits an aircraft that's
flying at a speed of a hundred fifty
miles per hour and that's pretty slow
for a plane the force of the collision
will be equal to 1,000 pounds falling
from a height of 10 feet how bad the
consequences of the scenario can be
depends on the part of the plane that
the bird crashes into probably everybody
has heard blood-curdling stories about
planes falling from the sky just from a
bird being sucked into one of the
engines well if this really were to
happen the engine would definitely shut
down but it absolutely doesn't mean that
a tragedy would ensue any plane is
perfectly capable of flying on a single
engine
and in the highly improbable situation
of two birds getting sucked into both
engines the plane would simply glide
gently to the ground this of course
would depend on the pilots skills but
the plane would most likely land safely
don't expect a smooth ride though people
who have been on a plane flying with one
engine says it feels like you're flying
in a really bad storm bumpy and quite
scary if a bird hit the fuselage canopy
or windshield it could tear a hole in
the aircraft this would then lead to a
disruption in the cabin pressure but
once again the majority of pilots would
manage to put the plane down safely 3
what would happen if your plane got
struck by lightning this might come as a
surprise to you but lightning bolts
strike commercial planes every single
day and when some particularly cautious
people ask if it's safe to fly when
flashes of lightning are illuminating
the sky around the aircraft all experts
reply with a resounding yes
the thing is that standard commercial
airplanes were designed to easily take
lightning strikes that's what dr. John
hansman professor of Aeronautics and
Astronautics and director of the
International Center for air
transportation at MIT tells anyone who
dreads flying in a lightning storm
according to hansman a lightning bolt
usually strikes some sharp edge of a
plane like the nose or a wingtip and
after that the current makes its exit
through the tail this means that
electric charge runs around the outside
of the plane while the interior is
protected from any voltage whatsoever so
when air operators divert planes around
stormy areas they do this not because of
the potential danger of lightning but to
avoid turbulence or external damage to
the aircraft that can be caused by hail
for instance for what would happen if
your plane flew too high as for an
airplane flying too high this can get
really nasty there have been several
cases of planes crashing after trying to
climb too high for example in October
2004 the crew of Pinnacle Airlines 3701
was flying their plane to another
Airport without pass
while they should have been flying at
33,000 feet they climbed up to 44
thousand feet which led to failure in
both engines the crew didn't manage to
restart them and the airplane crashed I
know we're supposed to be easing your
nerves
just hang on passenger planes aren't
designed to fly higher than an altitude
of 7.5 miles that limit has been set up
because the air above this altitude gets
too thin to hold the plane up of course
there is a special NASA plane aptly
called Helios that can fly much higher
up to 19 miles up there the air is a
hundred times thinner than at sea level
no commercial flight can pull off such a
feat anyway you shouldn't worry about
your plane climbing up to a dangerous
altitude this is strictly controlled by
air traffic operators plus an
experienced pilot would never make such
a grave mistake five what would happen
if your plane crashed into the ocean if
you keep up with current events or just
happen to see the 2016 film called
solely The Miracle on the Hudson you're
probably aware of one of the most
successful landings on water ever pulled
off this movie is based on the real-life
story that happened with US airlines
flight 1549 which struck a flock of
geese after taking off from LaGuardia
Airport in New York City as a result of
the collision the plane lost all engine
power entirely
despite this critical situation
the pilot Chesley Sully Sullenberger the
third managed to land the plane in
Airbus a320 into the Hudson River the
entire crew and all 155 passengers
survived the accident modern airplanes
are designed in a way that improves
their chances of landing on water
successfully all air valves that might
be submerged in the event of a plane
ditching on water are controlled by the
pilot and can be closed by a switch on
the flight deck so that they don't let
any water in
Planes nowadays can also float on water
for at least half an hour
this time can be even longer if all the
windows and doors of the aircraft are
intact if a pilot follows protocol and
manages to land the plane parallel to
the waves the chances of survival are
even higher but all this refers to
situations when a plane is gliding over
the water and manages to land on it in
the case of an airplane exploding in the
air or losing engine power and taking a
nosedive into the waves the chances of
survival are next to nothing the time of
day the temperature of the water how
good of a swimmer you are and a ton of
other factors can also influence your
chances of coming out alive but still no
worries right 6 what would happen if
your plane flew too fast
wait airplanes have a speed limit just
like cars do yep they sure do but the
speed limit depends on the level of the
airspace the plane is flying in a
typical maximum speed is 288 miles per
hour under an altitude of 10,000 feet in
some places this altitude can be higher
for example in Atlanta planes can fly at
this speed at as high as 12,500 feet
above 10,000 at 12,500 feet there are no
speed limits and pilots can fly at the
maximum safe speed the aircraft's
manufacturers have specified air-traffic
controllers have to monitor airplane
speeds in restricted airspace airlines
in turn control the speed of individual
planes 7 what would happen if your plane
ran out of fuel mid-flight in most cases
running out of jet fuel mid-flight isn't
a dire situation but this also depends
on a ton of factors a tank on empty is
usually the result of three possible
situations one the pilot is prepared for
the fuel shortage this happens when an
airline puts as little fuel as possible
in an airplane either to have minimum
way to take off or to request emergency
landing and have priority over other
planes at the destination Airport this
way a plane can't be requested to wait
so the company ends up saving fuel
I know crazy right in this case pilots
know exactly what to do to avoid an
accident to the pilot isn't ready for a
shortage of fuel but can perform an
emergency landing this situation might
happen if there's a fuel leakage for
instance in this case the airplane will
glide towards the ground if the pilot
manages to reach a runway to land the
plane by gliding the landing will go
smoothly
otherwise the plane could take a beating
but the people on board would most
likely survive 3 the worst case scenario
is when the pilot isn't prepared for
this fuel shortage and different factors
prevent an emergency landing if this
happens everything will depend on the
pilot speed of reaction and skills the
fact is that planes don't simply drop
from the sky right after running out of
fuel they glide and even at an altitude
of 39,000 feet a plane without fuel and
thus no engine power can glide for over
a hundred miles in fact when a plane
that is run out of fuel starts to
descend it's no different from a plane
with full tanks believe it or not every
time your plane is about to lower
altitude before landing the engines are
set to idle this means that the airplane
is gliding freely it's actually an
effective way to save fuel and glide
landing is absolutely identical to
landing with the engines on hopefully
we've managed to clarify some of the
questions you've been wondering about
hit that like button if you've ever felt
at least slightly nervous before or
during a flight or if you've learned at
least one new fact from this video and
don't forget to subscribe to our Channel
there are so many answers to different
questions on the bright side of life